
The Realities of Open Source
---

For something to be Open Source, it had to be, as far as I knew from the beginning of the semester, something publicly available for alteration. I knew that the creators of an Open Source Project would have licenses, and that it could be profited from, but beyond that, it was something I wasn't too familiar with.

One of the readings assigned on [this hyperlink](https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/) discusses ten facts about Open Source. I want to discuss if I knew these things or not in the following 10 paragraphs.

1. In a bit of inversion, I knew quite a few Open Source projects that were not Linux based (Audacity, Wikipedia, game mods, Wordpress, etc.) However, I was late to realizing that Linux was actually Open Source! In my head, I always took it as an alternative to Windows and Mac, an operating system much more suited for computer scientists and programmers. I never made the connection that it's more suited because it's Open Source.

2. I knew this one. Beyond donations via Wikipedia, the licenses to use the source code may not necessarily be free. That being said, I don't have any specific examples, but as the article states, Zimbra is one such program, whose usage is for email and collaborations among colleagues. 

3. Certain game mods are open source, and unfortunately, I have came across several that, while the source code is available, the creator has long since abandoned the project. This isn't a surprise, considering there would likely be less need to support a modification for game, in comparison to supporting the entirety of the game itself.

4. This point is quite interesting, as while I have assumed that the Source Code would be available in its entirety, I never stopped to think about what exactly that entails. I could take any OSS, like Audacity or WordPress, and alter its Source Code and its function as a result. I can add more features into it, I can absolutely break it, or maybe I just want to fix a bug here or there. Because the Source Code is entirely available, it makes any OSS great for beginners that want to learn how to work on an existing project, and great for those who are much more proficient in programming that wants to push the boundaries of what the software can do.

5. The semester-long projects of OpenStreetMap and Wikipedia already showed me that a programmer is just one piece of the puzzle for an Open Source project. There's bug testers, translators, donators, many people who can contribute to a project without knowing C, Python, Java, Django, Ruby, or any other programming language.

6. I would certainly hope my entire class isn't breaking the law for using Open Source! It does feel like it lies in a legal grey ground, but luckily, it actually is firmly legal.

7. As I mentioned in paragraph 4, an Open Source Project is actually perfect for beginners. One particular scenario I can imagine is that someone who messes up the source code doesn't need to worry, since the source code will always be there, as a save point or a branch.

8. There's Google, then there's Bing. There's Microsoft Word, then there's WordPress and OpenOffice. Just because something is not Open Source doesn't mean the Open Source counterpart is automatically lesser. And then, there are cases where there barely is a counterpart to Open Source. The proprietary counterpart to Wikipedia is Encyclopedia.com, but if you ask someone who even casually browses the internet and ask them to open up an online encyclopedia, chances are that they will go straight to Wikipedia instead.

9. I definitely made the mistake of thinking Shareware and Freeware are the same things as Open Source. Of course, it's as simple as looking at Adobe Flash Web Content. A lot of content that uses Adobe Flash are publicly available to use, but the code that allows them to run are simply not available.

10. And finally, of course I'm using Open Source. Beyond Firefox, OpenOffice, WordPress, Audacity, Wikipedia, parts of the Mac OS, OpenStreetMaps and TVTropes, there's the website I'm using right now: Github.

-Bakainkorp (9/18/19)
