Week 8: Cathedrals, Engines, and Finance
-

The Project
-

This week was all about finally committing to work on a singular project. First and foremost, the project that I will be contributing to is **[Godot](https://github.com/godotengine/godot)**. It is a game engine, coded mostly in C++, for designing video games. As I mentioned, video game design is one of my aspirations, and this project in particular is well maintained, well documented, and the community around it is quite nice, from what I have seen.

This project in particular houses over 5000 issues, which is incredibly daunting upon first glance. But there are quite a few labels on each of the issues that makes it easy as a starting point for contribution. Documentation is literally what it means, but it isn't just limited to the documentation in the repository. It's also included in the actual software itself. So editing the documentation in the repository, and having that be pushed into the software would be one way of contributing. Beyond that, it also mentioned a label called "Junior Jobs." This label lists out any minor issues that can be fixed with a lower level of C++ knowledge, as well as easier to accomplish, at least in comparison to the larger issues. If I want to start practicing my coding abilities, contributing here is one of the ways I can do so.

Overall, I'm quite excited to get started with contributing to the actual project. I definitely will start with documentation first. It'll get my feet wet with the project, and it'll likely orient me to how contributing to Godot will be like. I also am aware that the repository lists a "How to Contribute" guide, as well as tutorials for coding, usually accompanied by an experienced programmer willing to explain things beyond the initial tutorial. That, by itself, give me a lot of confidence to contribute beyond the scope of documentation, once I do get started.

Summary of Readings
-

One of the reading materials given for this week was a [chapter's worth](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Branches-in-a-Nutshell) about branches in Github. Some of the things I was very well aware of. For example, the definition of Snapshots was already known by me, since I played one game that, while it isn't Open Source, it had the update schedule akin to one; it was updated every so often, and although the changes weren't massive, they were tangible enough to warrent one. The Snapshot always provided a couple new features, as well as several bug fixes with past new features. Slowly, the group of Snapshots were lumped together to push out the new version number of the game. That in of itself, wasn't new.

However, the topic of workflow was interesting. The idea of a master branch and a developer branch was familiar, thanks to past discussions during class. But on the other hand, a topic branch initially didn't make sense. If a topic branch was going to be made, why have it be called the topic branch? Why not just expand on the developer branch? But the more I read and the more I pondered on it, the more it made sense. If there were five different features to be presented, why worry about compatibility between one feature and the next, when you can alternatively have several different topic branches just to test the viability, stability, efficiency, and so on of said feature? That made things much more clear.

The second reading was an article called "[The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html)." It was an article about the author's perception of software as a whole shift from a big and carefully crafted (a cathedral) to an equally large, but almost hectic, and nonetheless bustling (a bazaar). The analogy makes a lot of sense. Open Source, in spite of being managed by multiple people, and contributed by even more people, can still produce a quality product comparable to a Closed Source project. Sure, the Closed Source project likely fits the specs that the creators envisioned, but it isn't impossible for the same to happen with an Open Source project, especially since it can always be tailored to the user's liking.

Bill Reyner's Visit
-

Lastly, the past Thursday, our class was visited by Bill Reyner. His discussion prioritized the idea of using Open Source software in specifically a corporate setting. He discussed about the attributes of Open Source in that type of setting, such as having projects be freely tailored to the company and, notably, how the company can choose to ignore the GNU license to ensure safety, security, and secrecy of the code that the company has. It almost seems contradictory to the fundamental ideas of Open Source, but in reality, just like someone contributing to a project to better fit their own needs of the project, so too can a company do so as well, albeit in that different way. 

-Bakainkorp
