Week 9: Rebasing Previous Topics
-

Last week, I posted about three topics. The first topic was about selecting an existing Open Source project, and discussing the various diffiulties and overal situation with the project. The second topic was about two articles, a chapter in the book called Git Branching in a Nutshell, and another article called The Cathedral and the Baazar. The third topic was about Bill Reyner's visit, and his discussion about the various topics involving Open Source software, and its usage in a commercial setting, specifically in finance.

I personally have made a mistake, as some of those topics were meant to be discussed for this week. So, I will go through the topics that were to be discussed in greater detail, as well as a summary of the past week.

**The Cathedral and the Bazaar**
-

The Cathedral and the Bazaar, located [here](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html), is an article by Eric Steven Raymond. He talks about the comparison between open and closed software, creating an aphorism between a cathedral and a bazaar. Closed software is akin to a cathedral, in that a cathedral has strict guidelines, requirements, and design constraints. The efforts to construct a cathedral always bare those requirements in mind. And more importantly, its use and its details are usually set in stone.

On the flip side, a bazaar is a giant district where anyone can throw in their desires into the bazaar. For example, one person could sell rugs, and another person could sell food, and yet another person could go there to actually purchase those items. The bazaar is what the individual makes of it. But the bazaar as a whole could be seen as the sum of many, many parts.

This comparison was made to show how open and closed source software differ. Closed source software is made with a designated program in mind. What the creator of the closed source software envisions and the final product may be different, but it would likely be near enough to the finalized project. The issue comes if or when there is an issue with the product. Because few people (comparatively to an open source counterpart) took part in the creation of the product, a missing feature or a poorly thought-out aspect of the project might be present, and it would be harder for that to change due to the closed nature of the project. Open source, on the other hand, has so many contributors and hands altering the project, that the original idea of the project may not be near what was envisioned from the beginning. However, if a problem is present, the issues are usually addressed, and someone would be on top of it.

Overall, Raymond points out that both closed and open sourced software have their place, since both of them have their respective drawbacks and benefits. After all, a cathedral cannot replace a bazaar, and a bazaar cannot replace a cathedral.

**Rebase**
-

This was one of the topics that was discussed during our class. Rebase in of itself is an interesting concept. A typical merge in Github between two branches would have it be so that there is a divergence and a convergence in their respective commit histories. On the other hand, rebase would take one branch, commits and all, and commit ALL of it onto another branch.

The benefits of doing so is quite helpful, but it comes with its risks. On the one hand, rebasing would clean up the history of commits. Compare a divergence in a pathway, only to reconverge again. If a bug occurred later in the path, a developer would need to skim through both paths on the divergence, and it only gets worse if there's multiple divergences and convergences. Whereas, a single pathway would be far easier to digest, and easier to bugtest. But rebasing does have its problem in the form of lost history. Suppose someone would rebase one branch "A" onto a branch "B" far ahead of it. "A" might require code that is no longer present or edited to the point where it isn't the same code. Rebasing in this case would be astronomically bad, and if the rebase goes through, figuring out where branch "A" originated from would only be the beginning of the problem. 

While rebasing is a dangerous tool to work with, it still has quite significant uses for an Open Source developer. In particular, an Open Source developer can use it within their own repository. There, they can make mistakes, and even if a mistake due to rebase occurs, it would still be far better than the possibility of a rebase error on a public repository, where a lot of problems can occur.

-Bakainkorp
