Week 7: Evaluating Mumble and OpenRCT2
-

This week was all about analyzing Open Source Projects and determining if they are good to contribute to. In particular, me and my fellow classmates selected the voice chat program Mumble. Mumble is unique in that it aims to lower voice latency as much as possible for those who are playing video games.

The evaluation was pretty interesting, as we had to dig deep to figure out the details of the project. One of my group members had to figure out the type of license that the project was using, another one of them had to identify the documentation of the code itself. As for me, I prioritized the more human aspect of Open Source, the actual discussion between contributors and maintainers.

During this time, I had to analyze the several issues and pull requests that have been made. Were they quickly responded to? How did they respond? Was it kindly, or did it throw the answer out with nothing more? Did they answer at all? These things are very important for the health of the project. In my portion of the investigation, I also had to depart from Github to the forums for Mumble itself. Between what I seen on there and on Github, I was able to conclude that there was no issues as far as communication goes, aside from it being a little more sparse than I expected.

Really, the biggest surprise was how little communication there was going on in this project. Mumble was a program I personally used, and one that I didn't realize was Open Source. So, seeing it not receive as many comments as I thought there would be was actually quite disappointing, but that was nothing in comparison to the next project I was going to look at, OpenRCT2.

Over the weekend, I was tasked to look at another project, but I had to complete the evaluation myself. I didn't realize how difficult it was to figure out certain things, like the number of maintainers, the number of contributions, and even lines of code! For the number of maintainers, I looked at the actual team for the project, and made an estimate as to how many of those were maintainers. The number of contributions were located on the Insights tab of Github, and it was incredibly useful for other parts of the evaluation as well. As for the lines of code, there was a nifty website that analyzed the entire repository for OpenRCT2 to count the total lines of code.

For a project that I personally paid for to play, I was incredibly disappointed with what I found with OpenRCT2. In spite of having approximately 8 maintainers, the updates were few. The builds were all unstable with the expection of the developed Windows version. The maintainers and contributors almost had zero discussion, as most issues and pull requests were done rather in a robotic manner.

If anything, this showcases what Mumble has over OpenRCT2. Mumble still has ample support despite the lackluster number of comments, and the builds are much more stable. Although I don't have an interest to pursue Mumble further, I can definitely say I would rather work on it over OpenRCT2. Overall, this evaluation was crucial to show one important thing: support on a project is its lifeline.

-Bakainkorp
