Week 4: Helping Out with Weekly Blogs
-

This week was all about contributing on Github. In particular, the assignment this week was to help out another student with their blogs. For me, I helped out the user Shadow12ac. I personally wasn't too sure what exactly I should assist in terms of edits beyond grammatical errors, though I'm sure that will change in upcoming blogs. 

A lot of the assignment is what I have learned and practiced in class.

The first thing I needed to do is to get their blog onto my system. So, I forked over their blog, so that I had the code and blog posts on my Github. Now, even though it wasn't specified, I did want to practice remotingly obtaining all the files, as well as editing them through Terminal.

>    git clone [url]

Using the above command, I was able to download the files of the forked repository onto my personal laptop for edits. 

>    vi [file]

After navigating to the exact folder where the blog posts are, I typed in the above command to begin making the edits. In the specific file, there were two cases of the pronoun "I" that should have been capitalized, and an extraneous "the" in the first blog post. I made the edits with vi, and saved the file. Now, I have the brand new file with changes.

>    git add [file]

Of course, now that the file has been editted, it need to be pushed into my repository. So, with the above command, I marked that this file is to be uploaded.

>    git commit -m [message]

And with this command, I finished it off, officially updating the repository. However! That's only my repository on the computer! It's not on Github yet. So...

>    git push [url]

With this command, I can finally upload it to my Github account. 

>    git pull [url]

Normally, there would be an issue with merge requests, especially if multiple people were to work on this file. I would have to use the above command to get the updated files and manually correct it myself before attempting to push the file again. Luckily, that isn't the case here.

But wait! There's still a problem. It's still only on my forked repository. That's when I have to go to the actual blog of the maintainer, shadow12ac, and create a pull request to merge the edits on my repository and their repository. And that would be all I need to do. And I have made the pull request. It's just a matter of time before the maintainer responds to it.

---

The assignment is certainly an interesting one. While no coding has occurred, I can already foresee how this would be exceedingly helpful for OSS coders. Maybe it would be tidying up the code, renaming things for future contributors to make the code more readable, adding more functions to the code, the possibilities as are expansive as Open Source, as which to say, nearly endless.

-Bakainkorp
