Week 5: The Origins of RAS-Dazzle, and Branching Out on Github
-

**Summary**

This week, there was a continuation on working with other collaborators, but with an interesting twist. It worked out as more practice with working with git and Github. While there wasn't too much in terms of learning anything new, working with the Github users sjku1 and shadow12ac made working on a single repository far more efficient than what has occurred from the previous week. This was the origin of RAS-Dazzle.

The few new things we learned together were issues and pull requests. Issues are pretty self-explanatory: issues are problems that the repository has. For our repository, RAS-Dazzle, we claimed that there were several text files that needed to be present in the repository, and, as a contributor, I went through the motions of claiming an issue for myself to address, and pushing the appropriate updates onto my personal forked repository. Then, I had one of my other team members check the file to be pushed themselves to approve as the Maintainer. If the file wasn't satisfactory, then I made whatever adjustments that needed to be made to meet the standards of the Maintainer. And thus, the pull request, or the procedure of *pulling* the files from my repository to the master RAS-Dazzle repository is complete.

This was how it was as a contributor. But to be the admin for an issue, specifically an issue I opened up, the process was simply reversed. In RAS-Dazzle, I opened up the issue for a missing birthday.txt file, which is a text file to include everyone's birthday. The Github user sjku1 claimed it, and after working on it, he created a pull request. The pull request had the issue of not having everyone else's birthday, but that has been addressed. Then, user shadow12ac mentioned that he would like the birthyear to be included in the file. This is also a big part of open source software, where even a fellow contributor can mention issues for the pull requests. Finally, the file was considered satisfactory to me, and the pull request was accepted, and the merge was completed. And at last, the issue can be closed.

Overall, learning how to make these issues, creating pull requests, and most importantly, learning how to collaborate swiftly and efficiently with others in OSS was wonderful, and it's actually quite exciting to make progress, even in such a short span of a couple of hours. With this small project alone, we have done 42 changes from the original empty repository. What more with a different project with more people? Speaking of which...

**Finding New Projects**

[This link](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#finding-a-project-to-contribute-to) is an article about how to contribute to Open Source Software. Specifically Section 4 of this article discusses finding new projects to assist in. The most interesting part of the article to me is the big checklist underneath the sources as to where I can find new projects. It really helps out as a guideline, whether a project is suitable to be contributed to. Examples include if the project has a license, the number of open issues, the recency and the rate of commits on the project, active discussion, and even kindness and respect from the other contributors and maintainers. Not everything mentioned was something I had in mind when looking up sources.

Speaking of sources, the article does list several different websites to go to find Open Source projects. The one that caught my interest, [SourceSort](https://www.sourcesort.com), is all about coding-heavy projects. Admittedly, it's a little daunting at first. Having the screen fill up to the brim of projects in need of contributors and having to pick one is overwhelming, and seeing the massive progress of each of the projects listed can make a newcomer feel lost. But, like contributing to OpenStreetMap, the small additions helps the contributor understand a little more. And with time, the scope of the project will slowly come to make more sense and helping on larger tasks would soon be surmountable.

While I haven't helped out with any of the projects I have found (there was [one](https://github.com/enzo1982/freac) that was an Open Source audio converter that seemed pretty interesting), I can safely say that the sources from the article were helpful in finding projects I could contribute to.

-Bakainkorp
