Week 10: Wikipedia, Making and Taking, and Language Barriers
-

On the topic of Takers and Makers
_

Dries Buytaert wrote an interesting article about Open Source, where he discusses the place of "Makers," or those who either created or contributed to an Open Source Project, and "Takers," or those who used the project without any means of improving it in any way. Obviously, he deems that the "Taker" negatively influences the "Maker," by means of pouring less development funding into an Open Source project in comparison to the Maker. Another way was by means of a Prisoner's Dilemma, where if there are two companies that can earn more money by not contributing if the other company does, it encourages both to not contribute. The article continues on to discuss ways to avoid this type of scenario.

I do understand and agree with this author's sentiment towards contribution vs. non-contribution towards Open Source Software. Contributing to Open Source can seem non-benificial to a company, especially long term. After all, it usually seems that companies strive to earn as much money as possible, and that might include not providing any help into an Open Source Software. Providing incentives to improve the software, I feel, is the best way to go about allowing it, but to measure the value contributions is quite difficult, and I don't feel that the author's solution of centralization specifically would be viable; as a government would likely mandate the requirements to receive a stipend payment or the penalties, and this would likely encourage companies to contribute the absolute bare minimum to allow it, potentially stagnating the software more than without it. At the end of it all, I'm not a lawmaker, nor do I have a background in finance, and I do not know the optimal way of encouraging "Taker" to be "Makers."

Wikipedia
-

Wikipedia is absolutely daunting as an Open Source project. However, as a student who has relied on it for plenty of accurate information (in spite of what previous professors have said), being able to contribute to it is almost an honor, and one I would like to do.

One of the the most difficult things about it is finding a worthwhile topic to contribute to. Many topics, from dogs, to that one movie you seen many years ago, have enough information to be considered complete. There would likely only be a tiny bit of information to add, and, unlike OpenStreetMap, it feels like anything under the sun *and beyond* feels the same way. For myself, I used the "Random Article" button, to direct me to any page on Wikipedia. It may be a little disjointed, but I felt this was a pretty fun way for me to pick an article. I found stubs of articles and articles that should have more information, but doesn't; these are perfect subjects for contribution.

Although I haven't done so yet, I will contribute to Wikipedia in the coming weeks.

Contributing to Godot
-

Being perfectly honest, I have had a very difficult time figuring out how to contribute to Godot. The issues (especially coding-related ones) are difficult and feels too high for me to comfortably contribute to it. The documentation seems air tight and doesn't require much of any editing. I resorted to playing around with the program itself for a couple of hours before I realized something: the languages were mostly lacking translations.

I emailed my professor and thoroughly explained the process of how I would be contributing to this program. I will leave an excerpt of my email after my signature. Although I now found a fantastic way to contribute, I will eventually contribute to the main github repository soon.

-Bakainkorp

The Email
-

* The program has a lot of functions and documentation written out in English, but not in the Filipino language. Some of the things that would need translation are the menu bar of the program, the various documents listing out how to use each function in the program, debug and error messages, and even the names of each function.
* The translations would eventually appear on the developer build of the program first, before being pushed to the publicly available build of Godot. But before the translations would appear on the program, the translations would need to be reviewed and pushed manually by the maintainers. The translations done on Godot's Weblate page would be reviewed by multi-lingual users there, before being pushed on Github itself. For a typical user, upon opening the program, along with the file folder to open any projects, there is a small tab in the top right hand corner of the window to change the language Godot is using.
* The translations would be included on the Github repository, under a folder in the master branch for translations of each specific language. However, the maintainers of the project request contributors offering translations to do so on Godot's Weblate page.
* To give an example as to how this would be contributing to the program, I'll quickly explain how I did one of the translations:

1. I went to Godot's specific Weblate page [here](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/godot-engine/godot/). The webpage shows the different languages that Godot has, as well as the progress of each translation. I chose the Filipino language, as I can understand it fairly well and therefore do some of the translations, and because there was little progress made with the translation.
2. Clicking on the Translate button on the opposite side of the language would bring me to the many strings within the Godot's entire repository. Each string is currently in English, and while some terms have been translated, many more have not.
3. For the purpose of this example, I used the [511th string listed on Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/translate/godot-engine/godot/fil/?checksum=6475ee64b1ce198a), the word "no." I typed in the translation, and saved it, as I have no doubt that the Filipino translation of the word "no" is "hindi".
4. To the lower right hand part of the webpage, it showcases where the string is located on the repository. For this string particularly, it is located on the [2,126th line of this file](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/blob/ab2881bca1be5844dd17ae7b35922f851585a9ad/editor/editor_node.cpp#L2126).
5. Below that, the webpage shows where exactly the translated string would go in the repository. If/when the translation would be pushed, it would appear [here](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/blob/ab2881bca1be5844dd17ae7b35922f851585a9ad/editor/translations/fil.po#L2246).
