---
layout: post
title: Week 1: Why I chose to study Open Source Software
---

Open Source software is software whose code is accessible to the public for modification, sharing, and, contrary to what would be common belief, profit, all done through a licensing agreement between the owner of said code and the licensee. When I first chose Open Source programming as a course, I had very little idea how impactful Open Source was. I believed it was simply anything that was provided for free. That definition is close, but not entirely accurate For example, I have used the program Audacity, a free, open source software meant for manipulating audio files. Wikipedia is another commonly known open source software, as it is a massive accumulation of information across the board, from the War of 1812 to a popular actor's life works, complete with accompanying sources.

However, taking a step back, one can truly admire how much Open Source software has contributed to modern technology and daily living. OpenStreetMap, one of the programs my course requires to participate in, functions similarly to Wikipedia, except instead of factual information, the users input locations, such as roads, buildings, landmarks, and even dog-accessable parks! Wordpress is an OSS used on many different websites, all for word documents, whether they're lawyers drafting legal documents or modern-day poets typing their poems from their hearts to be shared on the internet.

For me personally, I have used all of these programs, but there's one special case that captivated my interest. I love video games, and I would love to design and develop them throughout my life. And one aspect of video games I always had a soft spot for: the modding community, a group of individuals set on changing the games that they play. Of course, this is very dependant on either the developer releasing the source code for their games or very talented software developers being able to reverse-engineer the code of the games for the modding community to begin. But in particular, once the mods are released, some mod makers want to lower the bar of entry for others, while others can simply open the doors for modders to be creative in areas where they aren't. The mods themselves can opt to become shareware or become open source.

Admittedly, the entire process of modding (and by extension, OSS) and fully explaining it is not completely clear to me. I only have done cursory research on Open Source programming. But I am definitely excited and determined to learn more.

-Bakainkorp

(Note: This post has been transfered over from a different repository, and as a result, the date of this post being published on this repository is September 11, 2019, but the original post has been published on September 3, 2019.)
