---
layout: post
title: Contributing to Open Source
---

The concept of Open Source is not limited to software. As mentioned previously, Wikipedia.com and OpenStreetMap.org are two websites I, as well as my classmates, will be contributing to. But, of course, most students in a Computer Science course can't just alter how these websites itself would function. For example, I can't adjust the HTML code of Wikipedia.com to remove the Wikipedia logo and replace it with an image of a dog, nor can I have a confetti sound effect play on the address of my home on OpenStreetMap.org. Disregarding the many checks and security features these websites have, those aspects of Wikipedia and OpenStreetMap are simply not accessible to the public.

What is accessible to the public is the ability to alter the articles contained in Wikipedia, and the information on OpenStreetMap. While the plethora of information on both of these websites are both daunting and completely incomprehensible if taken as a whole (the vast information of an ever-changing online encyclopedia complete with sources and all the information about all above-ground and even some below-ground structures in the entire world!), it becomes much more manageable if either research on one specific topic is done or the information being updated is simply knowledge from living in the area. Of course, this is one of the biggest strengths of Open Source, where information can be updated simply by the contributor's knowledge alone, and even more so with sources to back up the knowledge. Through this method, anyone, even with a complete lack of coding knowledge, can contribute to an Open Source project. And it doesn't stop there! There's bug reports, editing, translating, even financial support. All these methods are acceptable to contruibuting to Open Source.

For me personally, one of my favorite websites to browse is TVTropes.org. It is a website documenting the specific traits of entertainment media, such as books, movies and video games. Like the aforementioned websites, it too, is Open Source. Prior to me taking this course, I thoroughly enjoyed browsing through the website on my free time. I would commonly make adjustments to the website, whether it would be because there's a typo here or there, or to add some of those tropes to their corresponding pages. I have made two accounts for TVTropes for reasons unrelated to the course, but starting today, I will be making contributions to the website as Bakainkorp for the duration of the semester.

What was pretty interesting to me is how each of the websites responded to any contributions. Wikipedia and OpenStreetMap allowed almost complete freedom to alter the articles. A remote copy of the article (for Wikipedia) and the information of whatever location (for OpenStreetMap) for the contibutor (in this case, me) to access and alter. The remote copy would be submitted to become the new, official copy. However, in the event of simultaneous edits, an edit conflict prompt would inform the editor that a conflict is occurring and to adjust accordingly. On the other hand, TVTropes will entirely disable everyone else's ability to alter an article if it is already in the process of being altered. What is being editted is the one and only copy of the article. This may sound counter-intuitive, but it is an alternaive solution to edit conflicts, and because TVTropes is a less accessed website in comparison to Wikipedia, it would generally not be as big of a issue. And of course, with all three of the mentioned websites, there are ways to undo changes, if a change is deemed unsuitable.

Overall, even though no coding has taken place yet, contributing to an Open Source project is far from impossible. The methods of doing so are simple, and even someone who isn't in a computer science class can effectively edit. But for me and the other classmates, as the course progresses, we will start collaborating together on coding projects for these Open Source Projects.

One of the projects I would like to tackle is a mod for the video game Stardew Valley. It is a game about farming, fishing and mining. But for my purposes, I would like to focus on a pre-existing mod called Content Patcher. Its purpose is to be able to change art assets, dialogue, and scripted in-game events. As I mentioned in my last post, there are mods for video games that are Open Source; this is one of those mods. In the coming weeks, I will hopefully be able to create a brand new mod through this pre-existing one.

-Bakainkorp (9-11-19) 
